		|\/\/\/|	Chris Ahlstrom
		|      |	uunet!pak!ca
		|      |	GEnie KICKAHA; Compuserve 73340,26
		| (.)(.)_
		C      __)  "So it doesn't fit, we'll take it in."
		| `___|
		\   /		9950 Topanga Canyon Blvd
		/____\		Chatsworth, CA   91311
	       /      \		(818) 998-0490

    Song Title:	"Ancestors" by Larry Fast ("Synergy")
        Source:	Transcription from the record "Audion"
        Format:	SMF 1, MIDI channels 2-16
     Sequencer:	Edit Track II (Hybrid Arts)
      Playback:	MIDIMOVR.ARC (GEnie's MIDI sig); any SMF-capable sequencer
      Computer:	Atari ST
 Native Synths:	Yamaha PSS-790
          Date:	91.03.08


INTRODUCTION

	"...and nobody played guitar."

	I've liked Synergy since 1977.  I first learned of his music in
a magazine called Audio, wherein I found a review of his "Sequencer"
album.  At the time, I was heavily involved in PAIA synthesizers.
It was a great thrill to read the occasional article about his work in
Polyphony (a magazine promulgated by PAIA, who kept sending me issues
although I never subscribed, perhaps because I kept buying equipment;
the magazine today is called Electronic Musician).

	His electronic tunes seem to me to be the most expressive and
professional electronic music.  What he did with primarily analog modules
still surpasses a lot of today's work done with digital modules.  Today's
sounds might be very realistic, but at times they sound quite thin
and lifeless.  I must confess to an affinity for sounds that have
the classic "electronic" timbre.

	His songs also rank high for telling a story in music.  As an
added bonus, Larry Fast knows how to design sounds, create hardware,
and write software.

	He is great at creating bells, and at imitating orchestras.
I believe he started out as a technician.  He worked with the German
rock band Nektar, I recall.  Apparently, he also worked with digital
synthesizers at Bell Labs, in Murray Hill, New Jersey (I applied there
once, but got turned down, luckily, since they layed people off
shortly thereafter.)

	"Ancestors", I'm guessing, attempts to describe the travails
of Larry's Jewish forebears.  It is a Semitic-sounding dirge.
It is the sound of struggle.  There are high moments of great things
going on.  And, at the end, a strident cry.

	The fun part of doing this tune was layering track after track
of harmony.  I was a bit less subtle than Fast -- the improvisations
stand out more in my version.
	
	The original format was Edit Track II (Atari ST) --
download MIDIMOVR.ARC from the MIDI section of GEnie, to play this
file.  MIDIMOVR is "freeware" provided by Hybrid Arts.  It plays SMF 0
1, EZ-Track+, and Midi-Track (Edit Track) files.  The mouse buttons
are significant!


LYRICS AND CHORDS

	I can't tell you how glad I feel at not having to dredge
up the lyrics and chords.  I have no idea what the chords are.
I simply added notes that created the right effect, after starting
with one or two notes that matched the loudest tones in the song.


THE TRACKS (SMF version)

Track		       Ch	Notes

 1 Strings		5	none
 2 Recorder 1		6	The main melody
 3 Recorder 2		6	Counterpoint, intervals, & harmonics.
 4 Recorder 3		6	Ditto
 5 Recorder 4		6	Ditto
 6 Clarinet		7	Ditto
 7 Wood Ensemble	8	For power in certain sections
 8 Synth Organ		9	Adds power and stridency; synth brass
 9 Pipe Organ	       10	Helps fill out the bottom end
10 Arpegg/Bell Pipes   11	Arpeggiating pipes or bells in background
11 Flute	       12	Counterpoint
12 Gated Snare R#81    13	Pitch-bent reverb snare (percussion patch)
13 Pitched Timpani     14	Kettle-drum voice to follow bass
14 Bass		       15	A fretless bass voice to clock whole song
15 Synth Left		2	Echo on the left side
16 Synth Middle		3	A trumpet-pipe sound, to be echoed
17 Synth Right		4	Echo on the right side
18 Percussion	       16	Non-pitch-bent percussion (see below)
19 Chris Ahlstrom      --	The de-composer
20 PSS-790	       --	PSS-790-specific patches (nothing else)


KEEPING TRACK OF TRACKS

	I did four tracks of recorders to allow one to experiment
while playing back.  The clarinet, wood ensemble, synth organ, pipe
organ, and flute all back up the recorders and strings, which
carry the main melody line.

	The arpegg track is an attempt to implement the piping sound
that runs throughout the background in Fast's original.  It was
generated by a simple sequencer; I had trouble duplicating it exactly.

	For the pitch bend, set the percussion patch to respond
to the range of -8169 to +8064 with pitch bend of -1 to +1
octaves.  I put the gated snare under pitch bend so it would match
the tones in the main melody.

	The pitched timpani requires a percussive voice that plays
across the range of the equally-tempered scale.

	The synth tracks (15-17) contain Pan (control 10) to locate
the sounds in the stereo field.  My synth doesn't recognize Pan,
so I just guessed at a primitive setup.  In the original, some of
the tones flow across the stereo panorama.  Any reedy/pipey voice
should work.  On the PSS-790, the voices selected are all very similar,
differing mainly in timbre (filtering).

	I added, to each track, PSS-790-specific control information
for volume (control 7), vibrato (control 1), and reverb (control 91).
I hope it doesn't screw anyone up.   If so, remove them!  There is
no patching information on any of the tracks -- I put it all in
track 20, which can be turned off.

	For best effect, your synth should respond to both volume
and velocity (but not volume-velocity, ha ha [an acoustics joke]).


TABLE OF PERCUSSION NOTE-EQUIVALENTS USED IN THIS SONG

	Note	Deci	PSS-790 Drum Name

	G 1	43	Synth Tom Hi
	F	53	Tom Hi
	B 2	59	Open HiHat
	B 3	71	Tambourine


----------------
FANFARE SECTION
----------------

	Thanks to the Blair School of Music of Vanderbilt University,
in Nashville, USA, for providing many moments of humor as I chuckled
over their unfortunate choice of name for a school of music.
